When a colleague at Brandeis died suddenly of a heart attack, Morrie went to his funeral. He came home depressed. What a waste, he said. All those people saying all those wonderful things, and Irv never got to hear any of it. Morrie had a better idea. He made some calls. He chose a date. And on a cold Sunday afternoon, he was joined in his home by a small group of friends and family for a living funeral. Each of them spoke and paid tribute to my old professor. Some cried. Some laughed. One woman read a poem:I did not keep in touch. In fact, I lost contact with most of the people I knew in college, including my beer-drinking friends and the first woman I ever woke up with in the morning. The years after graduation hardened me into someone quite different from the strutting graduate who left campus that day headed for New York City, ready to offer the world his talent.Learn to forgive yourself and to forgive others Dont assume that its too late to get involved.I did what I had become best at doing: I tended to my work, even while my dying professor waited on his front lawn. I am not proud of this, but that is what I didMorrie might have died without ever seeing me again. I had no good excuse for this, except the one that everyone these days seems to have. I had become too wrapped up in the siren song of my own life. I was busy.Living unhappily is something else. So many of the people who come to visit me are unhappy. Why? Well, for one thing, the culture we havedoes not make people feel good about themselves. Were teaching the wrong things. And you have to be strong enough to say if the culture doesnt work, dont buy it. Create your own. Most people cant do it. Theyre more unhappy than meeven in my current condition. 1228One afternoon, I am complaining about the confusion of my age, what is expected of me versus what I want for myself. Have I told you about the tension of opposites? he says. The tension of opposites? Life is a series of pulls back and forth. You want to do one thing, but you are bound to do something else. Something hurts you, yet you know it shouldnt. You take certain things for granted, even when you know you should never take anything for granted. A tension of opposites, like a pull on a rubber band. And most of us live somewhere in the middle. Sounds like a wrestling match, I say. A wrestling match. He laughs. Yes, you could describe life that way. So which side wins, I ask?Which side wins? He smiles at me, the crinkled eyes, the crooked teeth. Love wins. Love always wins.Morrie, true to these words, had developed his own culturelong before he got sick. Discussion groups, walks with friends, dancing to his music in the Harvard Square church. He started a project called Greenhouse, where poor people could receive mental health services. He read books to find new ideas for his classes, visited with colleagues, kept up with old students, wrote letters to distant friends. He took more time eating and looking at nature and wasted no time in front of TV sitcoms or Movies of the Week. He had created a cocoon of human activitiesconversation, interaction, affectionand it filled his life like an overflowing soup bowl.meaning into your life is to devote yourself to loving others, devote yourself to your community around you, and devote yourself to creating something that gives you purpose and meaning. I knew he was right.He speaks of the alienation of youth and the need for connectedness with the society around me. Some of these things I under stand, some I do not. It makes no difference. The discussions give me an excuse to talk to him, fatherly conversations I cannot have with my own father, who would like me to be a lawyer.The most important thing in life is to learn how to give out love, and to let itcome in. His voice dropped to a whisper. Let it come in. We think we dont deserve love, we think if we let it in well become too soft. But a wise man named Levine said it right. He said, Love is the only rational act.Mitch, I dont allow myself any more self-pity than that. A little each morning, a few tears, and thats all. I thought about all the people I knew who spent many of their waking hours feeling sorry for themselves. How useful it would be to put a daily limit on self-pity. Just a few tearful minutes, then on with the day. And if Morrie could do it, with such a horrible disease Its only horrible if you see it that way, Morrie said. Its horrible to watch my body slowly wilt away to nothing. But its also wonderful because of all the time I get to say good-bye. He smiled. Not everyone is so luckyWe all need teachers in our lives.A teacher affects eternity; he can never tell where his influence stops.  HENRY ADAMS 1454 1456We really dont experience the world fully, because were half-asleep, doing things we automatically think we have to do. And facing death changes all that? Oh, yes. You strip away all that stuff and you focus on the essentials. When you realize you are going to die, you see everything much differently. He sighed. Learn how to die, and you learn how to live. 1456Well, the truth is, if you really listen to that bird on your shoulder, if you accept that you can die at any time then you might not be as ambitious as you are. I forced a small grin. The things you spend so much time onall this work you domight not seem as important. You might have to make room for some more spiritual things. 1457The fact is, there is no foundation, no secure ground, upon which people may stand today if it isnt the family. Its become quite clear to me as Ive been sick. If you dont have the support and love and caring and concern that you get from a family, you dont have much at all. Love is so supremely important. As our great poet Auden said, Love each other or perish. 1462What she mostly wanted, he learned, was the same thing many people wantsomeone to notice she was there.He smiled. You know what that reflects? Unsatisfied lives. Unfulfilled lives. Lives that havent found meaning. Because if youve found meaning in your life, you dont want to go back. You want to go forward. You want to see more, do more. You cant wait until sixty-five.They were embracing material things and expecting a sort of hug back. But it never works. You cant substitute material things for love or for gentleness or for tenderness or for a sense of comradeship. Money is not a substitute for tenderness, and power is not a substitute for tenderness. I can tell you, as Im sitting here dying, when you most need it, neither money nor power will give you the feeling youre looking for, no matter how much of them you have.Offering others what you have to give. You sound like a Boy Scout. I dont mean money, Mitch. I mean your time. Your concern. Your storytelling. Its not so hard. Theres a senior center that opened near here. Dozens of elderly people come there every day. If youre a young man or young woman and you have a skill, you are asked to come and teach it. Say you know computers. You come there and teach them computers. You are very welcome there. And they are very grateful. This is how you start to get respect, by offering something that you have. There are plenty of places to do this. You dont need to have a big talent. There are lonely people in hospitals and shelters who only want some companionship. You play cards with a lonely older man and you find new respect for yourself, because you are needed.Devote yourself to loving others, devote yourself to your community around you, and devote yourself to creating something that gives you purpose and meaning. You notice, he added, grinning, theres nothing in there about a salary.But really listening to someonewithout trying to sell them something, pick them up, recruit them, or get some kind of status in returnhow often do we get this anymore?They dont know what they want in a partner. They dont know who they are themselvesso how can they know who theyre marrying?Look, no matter where you live, the biggest defect we human beings have isour shortsightedness. We dont see what we could be.We should be looking at our potential, stretching ourselves into everything we can become.In the beginning of life, when we are infants, we need others to survive, right? And at the end of life, when you get like me, you need others to survive, right? His voice dropped to a whisper. But heres the secret: in between, we need others as well.